{{#title Questions 03}}

# Questions - Week 03

## Problem 1

`[AtM 2.3]`

Let \\(A\\) be a local ring, \\(M\\) and \\(N\\) finitely generated \\(A\\)-modules.

Prove that if \\(M \otimes N=0\\), then \\(M=0\\) or \\(N=0\\).

[Let \\(\mathfrak{m}\\) be the maximal ideal, \\(k=A / \mathfrak{m}\\) the residue field.

Let \\(M\_k=k \otimes\_{A} M \cong\\) \\(M / \mathfrak{m} M\\) by Exercise 2.

By Nakayama's lemma, \\(M\_k=0 \Rightarrow M=0\\).

But \\(M \otimes\_A N=0 \Rightarrow\left(M \otimes\_A N\right)\_k=0 \Rightarrow M\_k \otimes\_k N\_k=0 \Rightarrow M\_k=0\\) or \\(N\_k=0\\),
since \\(M\_k, N\_k\\) are vector spaces over a field.]

## Problem 2

`[AtM 2.12]`

Let \\(M\\) be a finitely generated \\(A\\)-module and \\(\phi: M \rightarrow A^n\\) a surjective homomorphism. Show that \\(\operatorname{Ker}(\phi)\\) is finitely generated.

[Let \\(e\_1, \ldots, e\_n\\) be a basis of \\(A^n\\) and choose \\(u\_i \in M\\) such that \\(\phi\left(u\_i\right)=e\_i\\) \\((1 \leqslant i \leqslant n)\\). Show that \\(M\\) is the direct sum of \\(\operatorname{Ker}(\phi)\\) and the submodule generated by \\(\left.u\_1, \ldots, u\_n \cdot\right]\\)

## Problem 3

`[AtM 3.2]`

Let \\(\mathfrak{a}\\) be an ideal of a ring \\(A\\), and let \\(S=1+\mathfrak{a}\\).

Show that \\(S^{-1} \mathfrak{a}\\) is contained in the Jacobson radical of \\(S^{-1} A\\).

Use this result and Nakayama's lemma to give a proof of (2.5) which does not depend on determinants.

[If \\(M=\mathfrak{a} M\\), then \\(S^{-1} M=\left(S^{-1} \mathfrak{a}\right)\left(S^{-1} M\right)\\), hence by Nakayama we have \\(S^{-1} M=0\\). Now use Exercise 1.]

## Problem 4

`[AtM 3.9]`

The set \\(S\_0\\) of all non-zero-divisors in \\(A\\) is a saturated multiplicatively closed subset of \\(A\\).

Hence the set \\(D\\) of zero-divisors in \\(A\\) is a union of prime ideals (see Chapter 1, Exercise 14).

Show that every minimal prime ideal of \\(A\\) is contained in D. [Use Exercise 6.]

The ring \\(S\_0^{-1} A\\) is called the *total ring of fractions* of \\(A\\).

Prove that


* i) \\(S\_0\\) is the largest multiplicatively closed subset of \\(A\\) for which the homomorphism \\(A \rightarrow S\_0^{-1} A\\) is injective.

* ii) Every element in \\(S\_0^{-1} A\\) is either a zero-divisor or a unit.

* iii) Every ring in which every non-unit is a zero-divisor is equal to its total ring of fractions (i.e., \\(A \rightarrow S\_0^{-1} A\\) is bijective).


## Problem 5

`[Lang XVI.4]`

Let \\(A\\) be a principal entire ring, and let \\(K\\) be its quotient field.

Let \\(\mathfrak{o}\\) be a valuation ring of \\(K\\) containing \\(A\\), and assume \\(\mathfrak{o} \neq K\\).

Show that \\(\mathfrak{o}\\) is the local ring \\(A\_{(p)}\\) for some prime element \\(p\\).

[This applies both to the ring \\(\mathbb{Z}\\) and to a polynomial ring \\(k[X]\\) over a field \\(k\\).]

## Problem 6

`[Lang XVI.5]`

Let \\(A\\) be an entire ring, and let \\(K\\) be its quotient field.

Assume that every finitely generated ideal of \\(A\\) is principal.

Let \\(\mathfrak{o}\\) be a discrete valuation ring of \\(K\\) containing \\(A\\).

Show that \\(\mathfrak{o}=A\_{(p)}\\) for some element \\(p\\) of \\(A\\), and that \\(p\\) is a generator of the maximal ideal of \\(\mathfrak{o}\\).
