{{#title Solutions 01}}

# Solutions - Week 01

The following fact about directed set would be useful for what follows.

> **Fact**: Given a directed set \\(I\\), a finite subset \\(J\subseteq I\\), there exists \\(i \in I\\) with \\(i\geq j\\) for each \\(j\\) in \\(J\\).

Note: we call such \\(i\\) an upper bound of \\(J\\).

Here is a proof of this fact by induction. The case where \\(|J|=2\\) is clear. Otherwise partition \\(J\\) into two disjoint nonempty subsets \\(J_1, J_2\\). By induction, we may find upper bounds \\(i\_1, i\_2\\) for \\(J_1, J_2\\), and by choosing \\(i\\) to be an upper bound of \\(i\_1, i\_2\\), we are done.


For what follows, we denote \\(\varinjlim\_i M_i\\) as \\(M\\), and \\(C:=\bigoplus\_iM\_i\\).

## Problem 2

`(AtM II.15)`

There are two statements.

1. For any \\(x\in M\\), there is some \\(i\in I\\), \\(x\_i\in M\_i\\) with \\(\mu\_i(x\_i)=x\\).
2. For any \\(x\_i\in M\_i\\), if \\(\mu\_i(x\_i) = 0\\), then there is some \\(j\geq i\\) with \\(\mu\_{ij} x\_i\\) = 0.

For the first item, express \\(x=\sum\_i \mu\_{i\in J} x\_i\\) for some finite subset \\(J\\) of \\(I\\); the fact that we can express it in such a way follows from the definition of \\(M\\) in Problem 1.

Choose an upper bound \\(i\^\ast\\) of \\(J\\). We get:

\\[x=\sum\_i \mu\_{i} x\_i=\sum\_i\mu\_{i\^\ast}\mu\_{ii\^\ast}x\_i=\mu\_{i\^\ast}\left(\sum\_{i}\mu\_{ii\^\ast}x\_i\right)\\]

For the second item, the idea is similar. Suppose in \\(C\\) that

\\[x\_i=\sum\_{(j, k)\in X\subseteq J\times J}(\mu\_{j,k}x\_j-x\_j)\\]

for some finite subset \\(J\\) of \\(I\\) containing \\(i\\); here \\(X\\) only contains tuples \\((j, k)\\) with \\(j\leq k\\).

Note that this equality maybe interpreted inside \\(C':=\bigoplus\_{i\in J}M\_i\\). Choose an upper bound \\(i\^\ast\\) for \\(J\\). The maps \\(\mu\_{i,i\^\ast}:M\_i\to M\_{i\^\ast}\\) gives a map \\(C'\to M\_{i\^\ast}\\). Applying this map to the equation above, we get

\\[\mu\_{ii\^\ast}x\_i=\sum\_{(j, k)\in X}(\mu\_{ki\^\ast}\mu\_{j,k}x\_j-\mu\_{ji\^\ast}x\_j)=0\\]


### Remark

Directedness of the index set is crucial. If \\(I\\) is not directed, \\(M\\) might not have such properties.

For example, if we take \\(A\\) to be \\(\mathbb{Z}\\),
1. then with \\(I\\) being discrete with two points, \\(M\_i=\mathbb{Z}\\), the element \\((1,1)\in M=\mathbb{Z}\^2\\) is not the image of any single element from any \\(M\_i\\).
2. and with \\(I\\) of the form \\(\bullet\leftarrow\bullet\rightarrow\bullet\\) (the roof), with the system being \\(\mathbb{Z}\overset{0}{\leftarrow}\mathbb{Z}\overset{\text{id}}{\rightarrow}\mathbb{Z}\\), then any element in the rightmost \\(\mathbb{Z}\\) mapsto \\(0\\) in \\(M\simeq\mathbb{Z}\\) (here the \\(\mathbb{Z}\\)).

## Problem 3

`(AtM II.16)`

There are two things that we need to check.

1. We need to show that \\(M\\) has such property.
2. and that \\(M\\) is unique (up to isomorphsim) with such property.

For the first item, say we are given such \\(N,\\{\alpha\_i:M\_i\to N\\}\_i\\).
* (a) By the universal property of \\(C\\), we have a unique map \\(C\to N\\) making any triangles with vertices \\(M\_i,C,N\\) commute.
* (b) The kernel of \\(C\to M\\) is generated by elements of a particular form, so by verifying such map is zero on these elements, we get a map \\(M\to N\\) such that any triangles with vertices \\(M\_i,M,N\\) commute.
* (c) To see that the map \\(M\to N\\) we get is unique, use surjectivity of \\(C\to M\\) and the uniqueness in (a).

For the second item, the argument is straightforward abstract nonsense.

### Remark

(This remark requires some basic knowledge in category theory)

One can think of the Problem 3 more categorically.

* Note first that a system \\(N,\\{\alpha\_i:M\_i\to N\\}\_i\\) is the same as an element in:

\\[\varprojlim\_i\operatorname{Hom}\_A(M\_i,N)\\]

* This construction can be regarded as a contravariant functor from the category of \\(A\\)-modules to the category of sets.

* The statement in Problem 3 roughly says that such functor is *representable* with the representative being \\(M\\); that is, we have a natural isomorphism (in the variable \\(N\\)):

\\[\varprojlim\_i\operatorname{Hom}\_A(M\_i,N)\simeq\operatorname{Hom}\_A(\varinjlim\_i M\_i,N):=\operatorname{Hom}\_A(M,N)\\]

* If we denote the functor \\(N\to \operatorname{Hom}\_A(M, N)\\) as \\(h\_M\\), the Yoneda embedding implies that at the level of functors, if we have \\(h\_M\simeq h\_{M'}\\), then at the level of objects we have \\(M\simeq M'\\).