{{#title Solutions - Week 02}}

# Solutions - Week 02

## Problem 1

`[DF 12.1.2]`

> **Settings**: A module \\(M\\), over an integral domain \\(R\\). A maximal set of linearly independent elements in \\(M\\) over \\(R\\) is also given (denoted as \\(x\_1,\dotsc,x\_n\\)). The submodule generated by these \\(x\_i\\) is written as \\(N\\).

Recall that there are two statements:

* (a) Show \\(N\cong R^n\\), and  \\(M / N\\) torsion.
* (b) Conversely, if \\(M\\) contains a submodule \\(N\\) satisying (a), then \\(M\\) has rank \\(n\\).

For (a), the elements \\(x\_i\\) defines a map \\(R\^n\to N\\). Its image is \\(N\\) with trivial kernel (by \\(R\\)-independence). To show that the quotient is torsion, say an element \\(x+M\\) is not torsion, then \\(x\\) cannot be writen as an \\(R\\)-combination of elements in the \\(x\_i\\), contradicting maximality.

For (b), recall that the notion of rank is defined as the maximum number of \\(R\\)-independent elements in \\(M\\) (see [DF p.460]). We only need to show \\(\operatorname{rank}(M)< n+1 \\). Following the hint, suppose we are given another set of \\(R\\)-linearly independent elements:

\\[y\_1,\dotsc,y\_{n+1}\\]

As \\(M/N\\) is torsion, we may find \\(r\_{j}\^i\\) and nonzero \\(s\_j\\) with

\\[\sum\_ir\_j\^ix\_i=s\_jy\_j,\quad j=1,\dotsc,n+1\\]

Consider this as an equation over the quotient field (here we denote as \\(K\\)) of \\(R\\).

The coefficients \\(r\_j\^i\\) defines an \\(n+1\\) by \\(n\\) matrix \\(A\\).

Multiply on the left on both sides of the equation by an \\(n+1\\) by \\(n+1\\) invertible matrix \\(B\\) defined by some coefficients \\(t\_j\^i\\) so that \\(BA\\) is in row echelon form.

By looking at the last row, we get:

\\[t\_{n+1}\^iy\_i=0\\]

This is a nontrivial \\(K\\)-linear relation of \\(y\_1,\dotsc,y\_{n+1}\\), from which one can get a nontrivial \\(R\\)-linear relation of \\(y\_1,\dotsc,y\_{n+1}\\) by clearing denominators.

## Problem 2

`[DF 12.1.7]`

Recall that we want to show

\\[
\left(A\_1 \oplus A\_2 \oplus \cdots \oplus A\_m\right) /\left(B\_1 \oplus B\_2 \oplus \cdots \oplus B\_m\right) \cong\left(A\_1 / B\_1\right) \oplus\left(A\_2 / B\_2\right) \oplus \cdots \oplus\left(A\_m / B\_m\right) \text {.
}
\\]

The idea is that the maps \\(A\_i\to A\_i/B\_i\\) gives a map \\(\bigoplus\_i A\_i\to\bigoplus\_i \left(A\_i/B\_i\right)\\). By verifying that this map is surjective with kernel \\(\bigoplus\_i B\_i\\), one gets the result.


### Remark

More generally, by recognizing quotients and direct sums as colimits, the result is a trivial consequence of the fact that colimits commutes with colimits.

## Problem 3

`[DF 12.1.11]`

> **Settings**: \\(R\\) is a PID, \\(M=R/a\\) where \\(a\\) is a nonzero element in \\(R\\).

Note that

\\[p\^{k}M=p\^k(R/(a))=((p\^k)+(a))/(a)\\]

so we have

\\[p\^{k-1}M/p\^{k}M=((p\^{k-1})+(a))/((p\^{k})+(a))\\]

Suppose the maximal power of \\(p\\) dividing \\(a\\) is \\(n\\) and \\(a=p\^nb\\). We have

\\[(p\^k)+(a)=(p\^k,p\^nb)=(p\^{\min(k, n)}b)\\]

From this the assertion is clear.

## Problem 4

`[DF 12.1.16]`

By the universal property of free modules, given a set of generators \\(x\_1,\dotsc,x\_n\\) of \\(M\\), we have a unique morphism \\(R\^n\\) to \\(M\\) by \\(e\_i\mapsto x\_i\\). The assertion that \\(x\_1,\dotsc,x\_n\\) generates \\(M\\) can be verified to be equivalent to the assertion that the map is surjective.

Conversely, given a surjective map \\(R\^n\to M\\), the image of each \\(e\_i\\) defines a set of generators of \\(M\\).