# Questions - Week 03

## Problem 1

Let \\(A\\) be a local ring, \\(M\\) and \\(N\\) finitely generated \\(A\\)-modules.

Prove that if \\(M \otimes N=0\\), then \\(M=0\\) or \\(N=0\\).

[Let \\(\mathfrak{m}\\) be the maximal ideal, \\(k=A / \mathfrak{m}\\) the residue field.

Let \\(M\\_k=k \otimes\\_A M \cong\\) \\(M / \mathfrak{m} M\\) by Exercise 2.

By Nakayama's lemma, \\(M\\_k=0 \Rightarrow M=0\\).

But \\(M \otimes\\_A N=0 \Rightarrow\left(M \otimes\\_A N\right)\\_k=0 \Rightarrow M\\_k \otimes\\_k N\\_k=0 \Rightarrow M\\_k=0\\) or \\(N\\_k=0\\),
since \\(M\\_k, N\\_k\\) are vector spaces over a field.]

## Problem 2

Let \\(M\\) be a finitely generated \\(A\\)-module and \\(\phi: M \rightarrow A\\^n\\) a surjective homomorphism. Show that \\(\operatorname{Ker}(\phi)\\) is finitely generated.

[Let \\(e\\_1, \ldots, e\\_n\\) be a basis of \\(A\\^n\\) and choose \\(u\\_i \in M\\) such that \\(\phi\left(u\\_i\right)=e\\_i\\) \\((1 \leqslant i \leqslant n)\\). Show that \\(M\\) is the direct sum of \\(\operatorname{Ker}(\phi)\\) and the submodule generated by \\(\left.u\\_1, \ldots, u\\_n \cdot\right]\\)

## Problem 3

Let \\(\mathfrak{a}\\) be an ideal of a ring \\(A\\), and let \\(S=1+\mathfrak{a}\\).

Show that \\(S\\^{-1} \mathfrak{a}\\) is contained in the Jacobson radical of \\(S\\^{-1} A\\).

Use this result and Nakayama's lemma to give a proof of (2.5) which does not depend on determinants.

[If \\(M=\mathfrak{a} M\\), then \\(S\\^{-1} M=\left(S\\^{-1} \mathfrak{a}\right)\left(S\\^{-1} M\right)\\), hence by Nakayama we have \\(S\\^{-1} M=0\\). Now use Exercise 1.]

## Problem 4

The set \\(S\\_0\\) of all non-zero-divisors in \\(A\\) is a saturated multiplicatively closed subset of \\(A\\).

Hence the set \\(D\\) of zero-divisors in \\(A\\) is a union of prime ideals (see Chapter 1, Exercise 14).

Show that every minimal prime ideal of \\(A\\) is contained in D. [Use Exercise 6.]

The ring \\(S\\_0\\^{-1} A\\) is called the \textit{total ring of fractions} of \\(A\\).

Prove that


* i) \\(S\\_0\\) is the largest multiplicatively closed subset of \\(A\\) for which the homomorphism \\(A \rightarrow S\\_0\\^{-1} A\\) is injective.

* ii) Every element in \\(S\\_0\\^{-1} A\\) is either a zero-divisor or a unit.

* iii) Every ring in which every non-unit is a zero-divisor is equal to its total ring of fractions (i.e., \\(A \rightarrow S\\_0\\^{-1} A\\) is bijective).



## Problem 5

Let \\(\varphi: A \rightarrow B\\) be a commutative ring homomorphism.

Let \\(E\\) be an \\(A\\)-module and \\(F\\) a \\(B\\)-module.

Let \\(F\\_A\\) be the \\(A\\)-module obtained from \\(F\\) via the operation of \\(A\\) on \\(F\\) through \\(\varphi\\), that is for \\(y \in F\\_A\\) and \\(a \in A\\) this operation is given by

\\[
(a, y) \mapsto \varphi(a) y .
\\]

Show that there is a natural isomorphism

\\[
\operatorname{Hom}\\_B\left(B \otimes\\_A E, F\right) \approx \operatorname{Hom}\\_A\left(E, F\\_A\right)
\\]

## Problem 6

[The norm]

Let \\(B\\) be a commutative algebra over the commutative ring \\(R\\) and assume that \\(B\\) is free of rank \\(r\\).

Let \\(A\\) be any commutative \\(R\\)-algebra.

Then \\(A \otimes B\\) is both an \\(A\\)-algebra and a \\(B\\)-algebra.

We view \\(A \otimes B\\) as an \\(A\\)-algebra, which is also free of rank \\(r\\).

If \\(\left\{e\\_1, \ldots, e\\_r\right\}\\) is a basis of \\(B\\) over \\(R\\), then

\\[
1\\_A \otimes e\\_1, \ldots, 1\\_A \otimes e\\_r
\\]

is a basis of \\(A \otimes B\\) over \\(A\\).

We may then define the norm

\\[
N=N\\_{A \otimes B, A}: A \otimes B \rightarrow A
\\]

as the unique map which coincides with the determinant of the regular representation.

In other words, if \\(b \in B\\) and \\(b\\_B\\) denotes multiplication by \\(b\\), then

\\[
N\\_{B, R}(b)=\operatorname{det}\left(b\\_B\right)
\\]

and similarly after extension of the base. Prove:


* (a) Let \\(\varphi: A \rightarrow C\\) be a homomorphism of \\(R\\)-algebras. Then the following diagram is commutative:
<!-- https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNCxbMCwwLCJBXFxvdGltZXN7Qn0iXSxbMSwwLCJDXFxvdGltZXN7Qn0iXSxbMCwxLCJBIl0sWzEsMSwiQyJdLFswLDEsIlxcdmFycGhpXFxvdGltZXMxIl0sWzEsMywiTiJdLFswLDIsIk4iLDJdLFsyLDMsIlxcdmFycGhpIiwyXV0= -->
<iframe class="quiver-embed" src="https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNCxbMCwwLCJBXFxvdGltZXN7Qn0iXSxbMSwwLCJDXFxvdGltZXN7Qn0iXSxbMCwxLCJBIl0sWzEsMSwiQyJdLFswLDEsIlxcdmFycGhpXFxvdGltZXMxIl0sWzEsMywiTiJdLFswLDIsIk4iLDJdLFsyLDMsIlxcdmFycGhpIiwyXV0=&embed" width="353" height="304" style="border-radius: 8px; border: none;"></iframe>
* (b) Let \\(x, y \in A \otimes B\\). Then \\(N\left(x \otimes\\_B y\right)=N(x) \otimes N(y)\\). [Hint: Use the commutativity relations \\(e\\_i e\\_j=e\\_j e\\_i\\) and the associativity.]

